templates/commands/specify.md, before:

---
description: Create or update the feature specification from a natural language feature description.
scripts:
  sh: scripts/bash/create-new-feature.sh --json "{ARGS}"
  ps: scripts/powershell/create-new-feature.ps1 -Json "{ARGS}"
---

The user input to you can be provided directly by the agent or as a command argument - you **MUST** consider it before proceeding with the prompt (if not empty).

User input:

$ARGUMENTS

The text the user typed after `/specify` in the triggering message **is** the feature description. Assume you always have it available in this conversation even if `{ARGS}` appears literally below. Do not ask the user to repeat it unless they provided an empty command.

Given that feature description, do this:

1. Run the script `{SCRIPT}` from repo root and parse its JSON output for BRANCH_NAME and SPEC_FILE. All file paths must be absolute.
  **IMPORTANT** You must only ever run this script once. The JSON is provided in the terminal as output - always refer to it to get the actual content you're looking for.
2. Load `templates/spec-template.md` to understand required sections.
3. Write the specification to SPEC_FILE using the template structure, replacing placeholders with concrete details derived from the feature description (arguments) while preserving section order and headings.
4. Report completion with branch name, spec file path, and readiness for the next phase.

Note: The script creates and checks out the new branch and initializes the spec file before writing.

Commit message:

feat: Introduce NUAA program templates and commands
- Added activities generation command with detailed execution flow and activity categories for NUAA programs.
- Updated analyze command to include activities.md in the consistency analysis.
- Modified plan command to generate implementation plans specific to NUAA initiatives.
- Enhanced specify command to create comprehensive program specifications from community needs.
- Created program activities and plan templates to standardize documentation for NUAA initiatives.
- Developed program specification template to ensure alignment with constitutional principles and community needs.

templates/commands/specify.md, after:

---
description: Create or specify a new NUAA program initiative from community needs description, generating a comprehensive program specification document.
scripts:
  sh: scripts/bash/create-new-program.sh --json "{ARGS}"
  ps: scripts/powershell/create-new-program.ps1 -Json "{ARGS}"
---

The user input to you can be provided directly by the agent or as a command argument - you **MUST** consider it before proceeding with the prompt (if not empty).

User input:

$ARGUMENTS

The text the user typed after `/specify` in the triggering message **is** the program description. Assume you always have it available in this conversation even if `{ARGS}` appears literally below. Do not ask the user to repeat it unless they provided an empty command.

Given that program description, do this:

1. Run the script `{SCRIPT}` from repo root and parse its JSON output for PROGRAM_ID and SPEC_FILE. All file paths must be absolute.
   **IMPORTANT** You must only ever run this script once. The JSON is provided in the terminal as output - always refer to it to get the actual content you're looking for.
2. Load `templates/program-spec-template.md` to understand required sections.
3. Write the specification to SPEC_FILE using the template structure, replacing placeholders with concrete details derived from the program description (arguments) while preserving section order and headings.
4. Report completion with program ID, spec file path, and readiness for the next phase.

**Critical Requirements**:

- All functional requirements must be testable/measurable
- Community voice and peer involvement must be central
- Harm reduction principles must be explicit
- Funding pathway must be identified or marked as needing clarification
- Cultural safety and accessibility must be addressed

**Constitutional Alignment**:
Every program spec must demonstrate alignment with NUAA's constitutional principles:

- Principle I: Peer-Led Development
- Principle II: Evidence-Based Planning
- Principle III: Funding and Compliance Alignment
- Principle IV: Stakeholder Integration
- Principle V: Harm Reduction First

Note: The script creates and initializes the program directory and spec file before writing. Use [NEEDS CLARIFICATION: specific question] for any uncertain aspects rather than making assumptions.
